# Expensify app
The Expensify app helps you to keep track of your expenses.
The app is built with React for the frontend and uses Firebase as the backend.

## Installation and running the app in development
In order to run the app locally in development mode, you need to prepare three things:
1. Install the Node dependencies with the command `npm i`.
2. Create Firebase Realtime Databases (for test, development, and production).
3. Create .env files with environment variables for connecting to the Firebase backend.
4. Run the command `npm run dev-server`.

### Installing Node dependencies
To install the Node dependencies, run the command:
`npm i`

### Creating the Firebase database and .env files
Information for how to set up the Firebase database can be found here:
https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup?authuser=0

It is recommended to set up at least two Firebase databases, one for testing and one for development. You may also want a third, separate database for production.

Once Firebase is setup and the environment variables are generated by Firebase, create two `.env` files, one for running the development dev-server, and one for the test suite. The files should be named:
- `.env.development`
- `.env.test`

The `.env` files should define the following environment variables, as given by Firebase during setup:

```
FIREBASE_API_KEY=yourfirebaseapikey
FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=yourfirebaseauthdomain
FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL=yourfirebasedatabaseurl
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=yourfirebaseprojectid
FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=yourfirebasestoragebucket
FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=yourfirebasemessagingsenderid
FIREBASE_APP_ID=yourfirebaseappid
FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=yourfirebasemeasurementid
```

### Running the dev-server
To start the dev-server, run the command:
`npm run dev-server`

### Running the test suite
To run the test suite in watch mode, while avoiding most timeout errors from asynchronous database calls, run the command:
`npm run test -- --watch --runInBand`

## Firebase Database Settings
### Security and Rules
To secure the Firebase Database, you may use the following rules in the Firebase Database Rules console section:
```
{
  "rules": {
    ".read": false,
    ".write": false,
    "users": {
      "$user_id": {
        ".read": "$user_id === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$user_id === auth.uid",
        "expenses": {
          "$expense_id": {
            ".validate": "newData.hasChildren(['description', 'note', 'createdAt', 'amount'])",
            "description": {
              ".validate": "newData.isString() && newData.val().length > 0"
            },
            "note": {
              ".validate": "newData.isString()"
            },
            "createdAt": {
              ".validate": "newData.isNumber()"
            },
            "amount": {
              ".validate": "newData.isNumber()"
            },
            "$other": {
              ".validate": false
            }
          }
        },
        "$other": {
          ".validate": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Visit https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/security to learn more about security rules.

### Firebase Authentication settings
In order for the app to be allowed to communicate with and login to Firebase, you need to make sure that you have specified the app's domain name in the Firebase Authentication 'Authorised domains' console section.

## Deployment
The project is designed to be deployed to Heroku. In order to deploy to Heroku, you need to:
1. Create a new project on Heroku.
2. Define the environment variables for Firebase on Heroku (same as for the `env` files specified above).
3. Use git to push the project to Heroku.

### Deploying elsewhere
To create a production build with the included Node Express server, run the command:
`npm run build:prod`
That command will generate `bundle.js` and `styles.css` files in the `public/dist` folder. The entire `public` folder may then be used for deployment to any service of your choice.

## Licence
MIT